Numbers

“… a man is sleeping, and becomes aware that he has just dreamt his son
being hurt. He wakes up, knowing this is a sign.”

“Please! Not another dream! Dreams are way over done these days in
literature.” Gallin said and threw his arms up dramatically. The others
smiled.

“No!” Ben Siman gestured, “Will you listen for once in a while? Do you
think I would tell you this if there wasn’t a quirk? Do you think that
the world runs only around on your physics rules?” Again the others
smiled. Just for this they came, week in, week out to “The Yarkon”, that
quiet little cafe/restaurant for years.

Seeing that they were all eyes on him, Ben Siman continued.

“The man thinks to himself, ‘all my life I have scorned people who
believe in dreams, portents, and such drivel. My son will laugh at me if
I tell him I had such a dream’. On the other hand, he cannot help
himself. He has to call! Picking up the phone, he laughs to himself,
thinking how silly he is becoming in his old age…”

“Reminds me of some people”, “Izi” Kriger, the head of the philosophy
department at Bar Ilan smirked. At 59, he was the only one of the group
under the age of 60, and he loved to remind them of it.

“Yes”, continued Ben Siman, “So, he calls his son, who answers on his
cellphone. ‘How are you Yigal?” he asks him in a neutral tone. His son
answers in an impatient tone: ‘I’m fine Dad. We just spoke this morning.
What’s up?’ Nothing his father says, a smile on his face. ‘Just wanted
to keep touch. Are you in your car?’ ‘Yes, Yigal tells him, ‘Like I told
you (again impatient) I am on my way to Raanana to meet with this
hi-tech group. I am sure it is a waste of time, and the traffic is crazy
and I’m late!’ ‘Ok’, the father tells him, ‘Call me tomorrow and let me
know’. ‘Sure Dad’, and his son signs off.

The father puts down the phone and smiles to himself. Not only that, but
he already has made up a new spiritual rule: If you dream something bad
about someone, that is a sure sign nothing will happen to him.

“Oh, what irony!” Sanna the painter laughs.

Ben Siman sits back knowing that the rest will now look at him, which
happens, of course.

“Nu?” The Old Man says with that most suggestive of Yiddish words still
used in modern Hebrew. “Are you going to tell us, or not?”

“Well”, Ben Siman smiles. It’s a bit obvious, no? A few hours later, the
man finds out that his son was killed in an accident. He flipped over. A
witness driving next to him saw him talking on his cellphone driving way
too fast, and he almost hit someone in front of him, turned too hard,
flipped over into the oncoming traffic and…. “

Sanna threw up his arms, “Too dramatic! Too obvious! What does it tell
you anyway?”

Ben Siman looked offended, (‘not again!’ the Old Man smiled to himself)
and exclaimed, “You don’t get it? It was the father’s call that made the
dream come true!”.
