The call came in while Professor Dan Palache was sitting in on a lecture
dealing with Modern Arabian society. His younger colleague, Professor
Jehan Sabach was furthering her claim on the influence of the large
Jewish migrations from Europe to the Middle East in the 17^th^ century.
She was coming to her favorite point, how the influx had stemmed the
Wahabi trend in The Arabian peninsula that had been brimming at the
time, which threatened the Muslim world, thus allowing a resurgence of
Muslim liberalism not seen for 600 years hence. This liberalism has
brought forth a modern, thriving society previously never seen
throughout the Arab world.

A young aide entered the hall, and quietly approached Palache.

"Sir", he said. "You received a call in your office from Professor
Suleiman from The Cairo University. She asked to tell you she is waiting
for you online.”

Amazing how such significant events happen when you least expect them
to.

Arriving at his console, he typed in his code and the screen lit up.

“Professor Suleiman!” he called to the face and the large moustache on
the screen.

“Ah”, the Egyptian smiled broadly, “You are so fortunate to have such
good friends such as I am for you!”

This took Palache aback a bit, and it must have shown on his face since
Amir Sulieman laughed loudly.

“Don’t be afraid”, Amir assured him, “Today, I am truly a bearer of good
tidings!

Palache resumed a look of calm, and asked his eccentric colleague what
those “good tidings” might be.

“You want me to explain? It will take too long. Get on a plane, or take
the bullet train if you still do not like air travel. I will have a room
waiting for you at the Hilton. Get showered and a car will come for you
to bring you to the National Archives in Giza.”…

He waved his arms dramatically when Palache started to protest, “No, no,
no, I will not tell you why. I can only say that God in heaven loves me.
I have saved something that was about to be burnt, just a feeling I had,
you know? Something that I think will rock your Jewish world, and maybe
mine, at the same time”.

And then the screen went blank.

Early the next morning, Professor Dov Palache got on train in Hebron to
take him to the “Bullet” in Jerusalem. Hebron was a bustling city of
close to 800.000, which like Jerusalem, Tiberias, Sefat and Schem was
known in Israel as one of the “old cities” which meant that everything
was done to maintain the older culture both in lifestyle and in culture.
The metropolises of Jaffa, Haifa, Beersheva, and Jenin were more modern
in their look and life, home to financial centers and the “fast life”.
Israel at 2015 was close to 40 million, a hub for the thriving Middle
East countries of Egypt, Arabia, and Iraq which, together with Israel
formed the Middle East Federation.

Usually the train to Jerusalem at this early hour was quiet, but today
there must have been a city wide school trip to the capital, and the
cars were full of small schoolchildren running around and yelling, while
their teachers struggled to keep calm. Well, the train only took 30
minutes.

“The Bullet” was a whole other scene. Clean cars, nice smoothing music,
cool air conditioning. The train, hitting speeds of over 450 KPH meant
that, including the stop at El Arish, he would reach the main Cairo
station, “Pyramid” in 3 hours. It is true that the Jet-Shuttle from
Jerusalem was quicker and just as easy to take, but Palache loved to see
El Arish, with its buildings of soft browns, tall palm trees, and wide
boulevards. Each stop allowed him 20 minutes to walk outside and breathe
in the smells of sand and sea, to see people walking around in colorful
*Jellabiyas* and turbans, which had become the city’s trademark.

The fast speed ride through the Sinai also was a sure thing to calm him,
watching all that sand and rock with large patches of green cultivated
land was good for his soul.

Coming to the Pyramid Station, Palache took with him his small suitcase
and exited through the Federation customs area. An electronic sidewalk
took him to the Taxi line.

The Taxi was a new 2015 Audi, the driver spoke to him in Arabic, but
once he noticed Palache’s accent, spoke in a quite good Hebrew.

“Please”, the professor asked, “If you don’t mind, could you take me via
Alexandria Parkway?”

The Parkway went along side Cairo Park, a large green circle with
beautiful desert trees. The city had, in the 1900's’been re-built around
this park after the devastating earthquake of 1899. Israel, along with
other Federal states had come together to build one of the most
beautiful cities in the modern world, a center for learning and the
arts. Palache has himself studied at the university and stayed to teach
there for several years that left a lifelong impression on him.

Amir Suleiman had been a roommate, a colleague, and a lasting friend of
his. Amir was a vibrant man who always seemed to be in a rush, always
needing to push things to an extreme. He majored in Anthropology and
specialized in what remained of the Wahhabis in Arabia, that small sect
that to this day contended that their belief in Islam was the “true”
religion. Amir always bragged to be a descendent of the Wahhabis himself
which, he said, “explained his explosive character”.

The Hilton room was like .. any other Hilton room. Palache was so
curious and didn’t waste time. He showered, dressed and went to the
lobby where he found the driver that would take him to the university.

Once there, he was met by Amir who hugged and grabbed his friend pushing
him towards the entrance, talking all the way.

“…you see” he bubbled, “I always told you that my fortune would be found
in the refuse of these terrible intellectual cathedrals! There I was,
playing hooky from my duties as a good Muslim, and using my Friday to
sifting through tons of “trash” at the archives. Sort of like people who
go around with metal detectors, I take out some papers, read them, and
most get thrown away. By the way, did you know that a woman from Heron
is here now? Dalia Weiss? She has become very interested in …”

Dov knew that if he didn’t stop him now, he would have to listen to
Amir’s latest amorous detailing. “So, what is it that you found?” he
interrupted.

“Ah!” Amir explained with a grin. “After all these years, I believe I
have finally succeeded in awaking you! Who would think that a man coming
from impeccable Latin blood would become such a cold fish? I am sorry,
but you should thank me for letting you savor the moments before I put
before you such a wondrous gift!”

Even so, Amir increased his pace while returning to the subject of a
certain woman.

Soon, they arrived at Amir’s office, and he fumbled with the key
dramatically. Finally, they entered, and Amir motioned to Dan to sit
down. He opened up a safe and took out a folder. This folder he held in
from of his friend and then explained:

“I found these papers, written in Spanish that I took to be from the
time of the 1600’s , and began to read them. Once I began I encountered
the name Palache, and immediately stopped.”

“Palache? Are you sure” Dan almost jumped up to grab the papers. “Why
did you stop?”

“Why?” answered Amir, looking hurt. “Professor Palache, do I not know
how long you have been looking for some line to your illustrious family
story. A story which may have changed history? We all have our theories,
but this may finally be the proof? What dog would I be if I were to read
these pages before you?”

Dov looked at his friend and tears came to his eyes. He got out of his
chair and the two hugged sincerely, both sensing that the papers Amir
held were in some ways, the source of their lives as they knew them to
be.

Disengaging, Professor Amir Suleiman handed the papers to Professor Dan
Palache, and exiting the office, left him alone.

With one last glance back before he left, Amir sighed, wiped the tears
from his eyes, and saw Dan in his chair, beginning to read the first of
the papers he found.

Hands shaking, Dan began to read the Spanish script:

‘The Caribbean lapped at the coast, calm as a sleeping babe …’
